>> Marcy Sutton: So that should be it for
this custom route heading.
And now, I'm gonna go implement it.
So I've still got an import here.
It's looking for
it in the better directory.
So we're in the right spot.
It's grayed out, because I haven't
actually referenced it yet.
But I'm just gonna grab that component
name, and I'm gonna change this
h2 to route target heading opponent,
I'm gonna pass in a level of two.
So it'll give me that h2.
And a quick note about headings, is that
we want to start with h1 on a page, and
go in order.
So the h1 on our app is this top level
accessibility in JavaScript applications.
Sometimes, you wanna change the h1
to be the name of the page.
You can play with the heading
levels a little bit.
Just, I think, the most important
thing is that they go in order,
so that you don't skip levels.
So I'm not skipping straight to h2.
I already have an h1 elsewhere.
So I've got that.
The other property to pass in, is target
ID, and I'm just gonna say navigation.
And if we go, I think,
I need the back here in my site
chrome directory,
I have a navigation snippet.
So what's nice about working with react
components, is you can break up different
parts of your site chrome
into different components.
They're reusable, but also you can just
focus on that one part of your site, or
that one part of your application.
And this is where my navigation lives,
and there is an ID of navigation here.
I've also got a visually hidden
heading here in the nav section, so
in that left sidebar, there is
a heading here that says navigation.
But the part that I really wanna focus on,
are these demos.
If I'm coming from the drop
down link here in the left, and
I wanna send focus into its matching
content, and then, I wanna skip back,
I think the most appropriate place, is to
focus on these links where it came from.
So that's why I'm putting
the ID right here.
So navigation that will
match this use case.
So I'm actually gonna copy this,
because we need this on all of our pages.
I've just used h2s here.
I'm gonna go change these real quick, so
that when I'm clicking around, they match,
and it won't matter what page I'm on,
so I'm gonna change all these.
And hopefully,
we can just automate this stuff.
So it's easier, and
you don't really have to think about it.
But for now, this will work.
I mean, this is how frameworks get made.
We prototype it, we see if it works,
we get more user testing,
which is something I'm doing.
And then, we see how can we make
that easier for everyone, so
RouteTargetHeading, and you can
honestly call this whatever you want.
Naming things is one of the hardest
things in computer science, so
maybe the name will change.
Maybe it makes sense to me,
and no one else.
I think I've got two more here.
I kept the imports in there,
so it should, should be fine.
The semantics pages an example for
you all to use later.
Rep target heading is not fine.
Okay, so
I do need to import that somewhere.
Let's see, which one was complaining,
the Index page.
So I'm just gonna paste this import, so
it knows where to find that component.
So now, if I would hover here, I've got
this little anchor thing that shows up.
It looks kinda funky,
because there's a carrot and an underline.
So I'm actually gonna go
turn off the underline.
For this case, it's an interactive thing,
I really recommend keeping underlines
on for regular text links.
This is sort of a special case.
So I'm gonna say text-decoration, none,
for this one little interactive thing.
And probably, I would use it a more
graceful arrow, but that's what I had,
[LAUGH], on the top of my head.
So I think the other part that I need
to hook up, is back in Gatsby browser.
So I guess, let's go, what I'm gonna do
here, so at this level, this API method,
doesn't really, I don't really have
insight into what's inside my application.
And frankly, I don't really wanna know.
I just wanna go look on the page,
and see, is there a skip link,
kind of like the one I'm looking for.
I'm just gonna write it like that,
if, let's go see,
I'm gonna do set a variable,
and call it skip link.
And I'm just gonna go look for
it, document.query.selector.
And it was called route skip
link was the CSS class that
I added in here, route skip link.
So if, if there's a skip link on the page,
I don't wanna error out
if there isn't one.
And if there isn't one,
it will fall back to reach router,
doing some routing focus handling for us.
But if there is a skip link,
I'm gonna say skiplink.focus.
And so, this will go look for
that component.
In the event that there
is a previous location,
because we've navigated, that'll be
null on the first load of a page,
cuz you're just getting there,
there isn't a previous location.
So now, if I use,
let's go see, I have an error.
And by the way, if you see this unchecked
run time last error message in the dev
tools, I see that all over the web.
It might be from your browser extension or
something, it doesn't actually have
anything to do with this application,
so don't worry about that.
So I don't think I got my
conditional right here.
So I'm actually gonna do
a little bit of logging, and say,
console log location, prev location.
And we'll just go make sure
that this method is working.
So yeah, we've got a location,
and null here for,
when there is a different one, I was
on the drop down page already, I think,
maybe some styling to indicate to me that
that's the page I'm on would have hoped.
So it's actually working, because this
showing our little route skip link.
So I'm gonna do that with the keyboard.
I'm gonna close the Dev tools.
And that was our focus
outline on the navigation.
So it's actually working.
So I can go back and forth.
It's working better than kicking
me all the way back to the top of
the application.
So I'm pretty happy with that.
I can go on one of these links with
the keyboard, hit the enter key,
it sends my focus to skip link that it
doesn't take up much space on the screen.
I could opt to style that however I want.
I can make it look like an icon button,
and give it an accessible name.
I could make it look like an actual
skip link, and say, skipped navigation,
so there's some subjectivity
involved with the design, but
it functionally serves purposes.
We're not just sending focus to this
rapper element, and then, being like,
all right, you're on your own, go tab
around and figure out where you are.
This link is actually useful.
It serves a purpose, and
so, through research,
I've found that that just
made a lot more sense.
That's for where we skipped back to,
we could play with that a little bit.
I'm sending focus back to the wrapper
element of the nav, maybe,
I should send it back to
the link I came from?
That's an improvement that we could make,
potentially.
But that's how I would
build this component.
I guess, one more thing we should look at,
is the accessible name of this,
just to make sure that
we've got that working.
So I'm gonna focused on this and
the DevTools.
I'm gonna go over the accessibility
inspector, and it says,
skip to navigation.
So the aria label is stomping over
the contents of that pseudo element.
Because aria label on the parent will take
preference over whatever's inside of it.
So something good to know about that, and
I can, I can see in this accessibility
inspector how the accessible name
calculation is like, what's winning,
if I have multiple things,
trying to like give it a name.
I love this tool,
because it will show me which one wins.
That can get a little tricky sometimes.
And so, I love that it shows
what's crossed out, and
what's actually going to be
exposed to assistive technology.